Mass protests have erupted across Israel
against prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu as his war on Gaza is close to
entering a 12th month and that's despite
mounting domestic and international
pressure to agree on a ceasefire
families of captives held in Gaza have
been demonstrating in Tel Aviv and
they're demanding that Netanyahu reach
an agreement to secure the release of
their loved ones also the UN Security
Council is expected to discuss the issue
in the coming hours joining us now is
Usama hamdan who's a spokesperson for
hamas's political Bureau thanks for your
time Mr hamdan so as we're saying the UN
Security Council is to discuss later on
Wednesday the hostages being held by
Hamas in Gaza as well as the overall
conflict after the killing of six
Israeli hostages over the weekend how do
you view
this well thank you Dar for having me in
fact uh it's a good issue to be
discussed but uh the big questions here
for the security C counil they are
trying to discuss or they are willing to
discuss the death of six
Israeli jail people in Gaza why they are
not discussing the killings of 50,000
Palestinians they are not discussing the
assassination of 60 Palestinians in the
Israeli jails while they were tortured
they are not talking about the situation
in gazab in fact they are not talking
about implementing the resolution of the
international Council I have here to say
that talking about the six Israelis who
were killed uh most of those people who
were kept in Gaza they were killed by
the bombings of the Israelis some of
them they were killed directly by the
Israelis and I have to remind everyone
that three soldiers were killed by the
Israeli troops uh thinking that it was a
trap and they declared that and
announced that they they they they
missed by killing them uh that happened
in sh a few months ago also uh everyone
remembers how the Israelis have
committed a huge Massacre inat why they
were trying to bring back some of the
the Israelis there Ann they have four
allow me just for a moment back to this
particular incident that happened over
the weekend the UN Human Rights office
wrote on acts that we are horrified by
reports that Palestinian groups sum
summarily exec executed six Israeli
hostages which would constitute a war
crime and is also calling for an
investigation I mean do you accept that
this is a war crime to which Hamas may
be held accountable for and would you
welcome an
investigation well well this is the
problem they decide that it's a war
crime they have only the Israeli
narrative they didn't ask Hamas they
didn't ask the Palestinians they didn't
investigate about that they jumped to
the pluging directly without asking
anyone who is responsible for that and
then they've said you are condemned you
are criticized we we we accept the
Israeli narrative and then we can
investigate I I think that that that is
very wrong way to deal with the
Palestinians we didn't hear from them
about the killings of the Palestinians
in the Israeli jails we are talking
about 60 confirmed killings in the
Palestinian from the Palestinians in the
Israeli jails we talking about 50,000
Palestinians who be whove been killed in
the last 10 months we didn't hear anyone
working to stop the Israelis from what
they are doing they have to be balanced
we have said you didn't hear The
Narrative of the Palestinians you are
just talking about what the Israelis are
say Mr we put these questions we do put
these questions to you and diplomats
when we do speak to them but now i' just
like to get your point of view on on the
issue of the captiv and what happened in
Gaza look alasan Brigade spokesman Abu
abeda said that the captives held in
Gaza would return to Israel in coffins
if Israeli military pressure continues
and he also warned that new instructions
have been given to its Fighters guarding
the captives in case Israeli troops
approach what are we to understand these
new instructions to
be well the clear message from Ab from
the Palestinian resistance was you have
tried all the time to have your people
back by the force and each time the that
that action caused the killing of them I
have to to talk back that we declared
that some of them they were killed by by
the Israelis themselves when they were
bombing the houses we declared some
names we have declared true they Alam
troops they declared three months ago
that they lost the contact with the
people who were keeping
her and they don't they didn't have the
contact back and that was because of the
the Israelis so this is why I'm
insisting we have to talk about the
Palestinian narrative the the message
from abua was if you try to continue
this way you will cause the death of
your people so how are you going to
secure willing to how is Hamas going to
secure the safety of the remaining
captives being held in
Gaza by stopping the Israeli attacks the
main reason of the killings is the
Israeli attacks the people who who were
killed they were killed by the Israelis
either by bombing them or by shooting
them and and they have four alive
Israelis but they've killed at the same
moment another three who were there in
the same place so the idea to to send
them back alive and to send also the
Palestinian people to their
families is is to to achieve the deal
ceasefire complete Israeli
withdrawal a serious pronal exchange
okay let's talk about the
CE months let's talk about the ceasefire
because according to reports the US
President Joe Biden is saying that
Washington is very close to putting
forward a final proposal for an
agreement and reports are suggesting
that it will deal with the Philadelphia
Corridor and the presence of Israeli
forces there which of course has been
one of the major sticking points have
you been told anything more about
this officially we were not told
anything no one talks to us officially
we just hear rumors we hear from the
media but I have to
say through the the last months every
time the Americans try to to be
optimistic because for their own needs
for the for their internal problems the
elections the what's happening in the
universities but in fact they understand
well more than anyone else that the main
obstacle was Netanyahu and his
government they they rejected all the
proposal which was introduced them
although we have accepted at least two
proposals from the mediators and after
that the Israeli answer was the
rejection uh everyone remembers two days
ago Netanyahu went to a press conference
and he insist that he will stay in in
Philadelphia although he understands
that it's International borders between
the Palestinians and the Egyptians he
does he is not supposed to be there for
two reasons for because he's prevented
by the the the Camp David the Accord
between Egypt and and Israel and the
second we believe this is a Palestinian
issue we don't need anyone to interfere
in that mainly the Israelis so what are
your red lines going forward as uh these
ceasefire talks take
place I I think we we don't need more
negotiations there was a a proposal
introduced to both sides for to Hamas
and the Israeli side we declared our
acceptance for this prop proposal it was
based on the President Biden initiative
and the inter and Security Council
resolution and and the Israelis they've
rejected that in a practical way they
committed the massacre of al- maasi and
they assassinated hania and they even
committed the massacre of in school I
think what we need now a real pressure
from the American side on the Israelis
to accept that proposal which was
accepted by mass and I have to say it
wasn't introduced by the m migrators and
it was written by the Americans
themselves Mr hamdan just a final
thought from you if I may on what's
happening in the occupied West Bank how
do you view things there and how will
you deal as Hamas how will Hamas deal uh
with the situation going forward in the
occupied West Bank with the ongoing
military raids and arrests as we've been
seeing well what's happening in West
Bank it shows that the Israelis they
don't recognize the Palestinians as a
nation everyone knows that for for for
example in Janine there is a Palestinian
Authority and they were they are
supposed to have the full control on the
security there they invaded Janine they
didn't talk to the Palestinian Authority
even when Netanyahu and his press
conference was talking uh on on the map
there was no West Bank it shows the real
H will of this government to take over
all the all West Bank and I think by
invading the northern part of
West Bank they are preparing for for for
this step I have to remind everyone that
two years ago smri have said clearly we
have to evacuate 2 million Palestinians
from West West Bank if we want a
survival for
Israel okay Mr Usama hamdan thank you so
much for speaking to us on Al
jaer make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from alaz